#hasheq((doc . (root (p (title "Quantum vs. classical") (br) (subtitle "What is it that makes the quantum world different?")) (p "Everyday objects more or less obey the laws of physics discovered by Isaac Newton and other luminaries of the Enlightenment. You can find your car keys because they stay right where you put them an hour ago instead of suddenly appearing in the refrigerator. You can decide how to dress because your clothes don’t change color in the closet. A well-pitched baseball always arrives at the catcher’s mitt and not in the parking lot.") (div ((class "center tc")) (img ((src "images/Classical_Space.jpg") (class "pl3 pr3 pb3-ns pb2 mw5") (style "width: 50% ;float: right ;")))) (p "These everyday experiences are the result of classical physics—the laws and equations that were around before quantum mechanics. The world of classical physics is predictable. If you know the initial position and speed of an object, as well as the forces that act on it, you can predict its motion with perfect certainty. That’s how NASA can place a spacecraft at a precise location a billion kilometers away.") (h2 ((class "f4 pt4 ttu tracked fw6 sans-serif gray")) "The quantum world") (div ((class "right-0 fl w-100 w-45-sl absolute-ns pl4 pr4 pt1 sans-serif f6 pr5-ns")) (iframe ((src "images/band-structure.html") (class "iframe w-100 mw7-ns") (id "g1264") (scrolling "no") (frameborder "0")))) (p "In the quantum world—at the scale of atoms or smaller—things are utterly different. Not weird or mysterious or incomprehensible. Just way different.") (p "For one thing, properties of quantum objects can’t take on any old value. Someone walking down a ramp can stop at any spot along the way, but many quantum properties are restricted to certain allowed values—more like items placed on a staircase than on a ramp. Something can be on step 2, 3, 4 or whatever. But not step 2.67 or 4.23. It’s the way nature seems to operate at the smallest dimensions.") (div ((class "center tc")) (img ((src "images/Classical_Ramp.jpg") (class "pl3 pr3 pb3-ns pb2 mw5") (style "width: 100% ;float: center ;")))) (p "Each increment is a “quantum,” from the Latin word for “how much” (plural: quanta). Some quantum effects defy intuition, but others are easier to understand. For example, each element in the periodic table has its own unique luminous fingerprint or spectrum. That’s because each has its own distinct arrangement of electrons with certain specific energies.") (p "When one electron gains exactly the right amount of energy—no more, no less—it can jump a higher energy level. When it falls back, it sheds that energy as a quantum of light—also known as a photon. The color of the light depends on the energy difference between the two levels, and so is unique to every element. (When electrons change levels, they do so instantaneously in a “quantum leap.”)") (h2 ((class "f4 pt4 ttu tracked fw6 sans-serif gray")) "Other properties") (div ((class "right-0 fl w-100 w-45-sl absolute-ns pl4 pr4 pt1 sans-serif f6 pr5-ns")) (p (iframe ((src "images/moebius.html") (class "iframe w-100 mw7-ns") (id "g1265") (scrolling "no") (frameborder "0")))) (div ((class "w-100 mw5 gray center mb4")) "An untwisted ribbon and a Moebius strip are topologically distinct shapes. Paths that wrap around the ribbon live entirely on one side. But a Moebius strip doesn’t have sides, and a path needs to make two revolutions to get back to where it started. The only way to get from one shape to the other is to tear the ribbon, add a twist and glue the two sides back together.")) (p "Many more properties, including aspects of magnetism and momentum, are quantized on the subatomic scale. But that does not mean that an object’s properties have fixed values. In fact, isolated quantum objects or systems do not have any particular properties until they are measured, a feature you can learn more about in the entry on quantum measurement. Quantum physics provides a way to calculate the probability of any given measurement outcome, though, even if it doesn’t provide the perfect predictability of classical physics.") (p "Finally, in the quantum world objects can have both particle and wave properties. Although massless photons behave like waves, and can be reflected, refracted, and so forth, they also behave like particles in certain experiments. For example, when a photon of the right frequency strikes some materials, its energy can liberate an electron from its usual cramped position. This interaction, called the photoelectric effect, got Einstein a Nobel prize and serves as the basis for every photovoltaic cell making electricity out of light from the sun.") (p "The mass and velocity of electrons in their role as particles are utilized in lithography, welding, chemical processing, medicine, and many more applications. But when a beam of electrons passes through a barrier with two parallel slits cut into it and then on to a detector, the electrons behave like waves, forming interference patterns on the detector."))) (metas . #hasheq((here-path . "/Users/sean/Desktop/atlas-templates/quantum_vs_classical.html.pm"))))