#hasheq((doc . (root (p (title "Quantum vs. classical")) (h3 ((class "")) "What is it that makes the quantum world different?") (p "Physicists call our everyday world “classical” because everything works according to the familiar laws discovered by Isaac Newton and other pre-quantum luminaries. You can find your car keys because they stay right where you put them an hour ago instead of suddenly appearing in the refrigerator. Objects can be made and measured to any arbitrary size or weight. You can decide how to dress because your clothes don’t change color in the closet. A well-pitched baseball always arrives at the catcher’s mitt and not in the parking lot.") (p (inline (img ((src "images/Classical_Space.jpg") (class "pl3 pr3 mw5") (style "width: 50% ;float: right ;"))))) (p "The classical world is so predictable that if you can know all the initial conditions of an action, you can predict its outcome with perfect certainty. That’s how NASA can place a spacecraft at a precise location a billion kilometers away.") (h2 ((class "f4 pt4 ttu tracked fw6 sans-serif gray")) "The quantum world") (div ((class "right-0 fl w-100 w-45-sl absolute-ns pl4 pr4 pt1 sans-serif f6 pr5-ns")) (iframe ((src "images/band-structure.html") (class "iframe w-100 mw7-ns") (id "g4454") (scrolling "no") (frameborder "0")))) (p "In the quantum world—at the scale of atoms or smaller—things are utterly different. Not weird or mysterious or incomprehensible. Just way different.") (p "For one thing, properties of quantum objects cannot take on an indefinite range of values in the way that, for example, a classical item sitting on a ramp can be adjusted to any desired height above the base. Quantum properties are restricted to only certain allowed values, like items placed on steps of a staircase. They can only have heights of 2, 3, 4 or more whole steps. But not 2.67 or 4.23 steps. Why? Don’t ask. There is no “reason.” It’s just the way nature operates at sub-microscopic dimensions.") (p (inline (img ((src "images/Classical_Ramp.jpg") (class "pl3 pr3 mw5") (style "width: 100% ;float: center ;"))))) (p "Each permitted increment is a “quantum” from the Latin word for “how much” (plural: quanta). You’ve seen quantum effects if you’ve ever looked at images of the light emitted by different elements. Each element has its own unique spectrum because each has its own distinctive arrangement of electrons at specific permitted energy levels.") (p "When an electron gains exactly the right amount of energy—no more, no less—it can jump to the next allowed level. When it falls back, it sheds that energy as light. The color of the light depends on the energy difference between the two levels, and so is unique to every element. (When electrons change levels, they do so instantaneously in a “quantum leap.“)") (h2 ((class "f4 pt4 ttu tracked fw6 sans-serif gray")) "Other properties") (div ((class "right-0 fl w-100 w-45-sl absolute-ns pl4 pr4 pt1 sans-serif f6 pr5-ns")) (p (iframe ((src "images/moebius.html") (class "iframe w-100 mw7-ns") (id "g4455") (scrolling "no") (frameborder "0")))) (div ((class "w-100 mw5 gray center mb4")) "An untwisted ribbon and a Moebius strip are topologically distinct shapes. Paths that wrap around the ribbon live entirely on one side. But a Moebius strip doesn’t have sides, and a path needs to make two revolutions to get back to where it started. The only way to get from one shape to the other is to tear the ribbon, add a twist and glue the two sides back together.")) (p "In addition to photons—the indivisible quantum particles of light—many properties, including aspects of magnetism and momentum, are quantized on the subatomic scale.") (p "But that does not mean that an object’s properties have fixed values. In fact, isolated quantum objects or systems do not have any particular properties until they are measured. Before then, they exist in all possible states at once.") (p "For example, an electron orbiting an atom has no actual physical position until a measurement reveals where it was. There are equations that determine the probability of the electron being in a certain place when it takes on a definite location. But that position cannot be predicted in advance.") (p "Finally, in the quantum world everything has both particle and wave properties. Although massless photons behave like waves, and can be reflected, refracted, and so forth, they also function as particles. For example, when a photon of the right frequency strikes certain materials, its kinetic energy can knock an electron out of its normal position. This interaction, called the photoelectric effect, got Einstein a Nobel prize and serves as the basis for every photovoltaic cell making electricity out of solar photon energy.") (p "The mass and velocity of electrons in their role as particles are utilized in lithography, welding, chemical processing, medicine, and many more applications. But when a beam of electrons passes through a barrier with two parallel slits cut into it and then on to a detector, the electrons behave like waves, forming interference patterns on the detector."))) (metas . #hasheq((here-path . "/Users/sean/Desktop/pollen_test_2/test.html.pm"))))