#hasheq((doc . (root (p (title "Quantum superposition") (br) (subtitle "Wave goodbye to TK.")) (p "Quantum superposition—in which two or more wave-like quantum states are combined into a single new state—may seem incomprehensibly weird, like plopping an apple next to an orange and calling the pair a grapefruit.") (div ((class "right-0 fl w-100 w-45-sl absolute-ns pl4 pr4 pt1 sans-serif f6 pr5-ns")) (iframe ((src "images/three-js-waves/Superposition_WaveShape.jpg") (class "iframe w-100 mw7-ns") (id "g5201") (scrolling "no") (frameborder "0")))) (p "But superposition is just the way that waves interact. It’s at work every time you strum a guitar and hear the tones from each string harmonize into a rich chord. You can see it in the ripples that dance on the surface of a pond after tossing in a handful of pebbles—the disturbances bump into each other and interfere on their journey toward the shore. Both cases capture a generic feature: Overlapping waves combine, blending their undulations by addition. The resulting wave shape is just a point-by-point sum of the individual waves.") (div ((class "center tc")) (img ((src "images/Superposition_WaveShape.jpg") (class "pl3 pr3 pb2 mw5") (style "width: 100% ;float: center ;")))) (p "In quantum physics, the waves don’t need to be rippling through anything real. Quantum waves represent something different than the displacement of water or air molecules. They represent the likelihood of something happening. Just as water waves alternate between crests and troughs, quantum wave functions swing between higher and lower probabilities for various quantum properties.") (p "For instance, an electron bound to an atom can live at particular energy levels. If it’s sitting at one level, its location around the nucleus gets smeared out into a whole cloud of possibilities [shown in the diagram below/to the right for different energy levels]. It’s common to describe this by saying that the electron is in many places at once or everywhere at the same time. But that’s like saying the ripples on a pond are in many places at once; it’s true, but it isn’t all that helpful to talk about waves in those terms. The nature of a wave is to extend through many points, and it’s the properties of the whole wave—the frequency of its oscillations and the speed at which it travels, among others—that matter.") (p "The effects of quantum superposition can even be seen at real-world scales, much bigger than the submicroscopic realm of electrons and atoms. In a classic experiment, a beam of electrons was fired at a barrier containing two narrow slits, past which sat a sensitive detector that could register where an electron struck. If electrons were behaving like tiny billiard balls, you would expect the detector to see a pattern with two clusters of arrivals, one directly behind each slit. Instead, the detector saw an interference pattern, as though the electron were a wave.") (p "It’s an experiment that challenges intuition, but quantum physics easily explains what’s going on. The two slits expose the wave-like behavior of single electrons by channeling them into a quantum superposition of “went through the left slit” and “went through the right slit.” Summing the two wave patterns generated by the electron waves emanating from both slits yields the pattern of alternating bands that the detector actually records. [static image of double-slit interference pattern?]") (p "So the existence of quantum superpositions isn’t really up for debate. Still, some of the greatest minds in science have struggled with how to interpret quantum superposition as well as other features of quantum physics, and that struggle is still going on. There are now almost as many interpretations of quantum physics as there are quantum physicists, but they all agree that superposition is a necessary—and real—feature of the theory."))) (metas . #hasheq((here-path . "/Users/sean/Desktop/atlas-templates/superposition.html.pm"))))